hello everyone once again welcome to
wordpress accessibility day 2020. my
name is ahmed khabib and i'm working as
a business development manager at
williams also a regular contributor to
the making wordpress documentation
design polyglots accessibility hosting
community learn wordpress and marketing
team i will be your host for this
session you're here 49 am utc top with
mitchell evan please feel free to add
your questions to the youtube chat feed
and we'll answer those at the end
so when selecting a content management
system
you're already asking can you produce an
accessible website
but a simple yes to that question is not
always enough in this presentation you
will learn how to ask more detailed
questions to find out the reality behind
accessibility claims desktop focuses on
the following how to use accessibility
standards for authoring tools to help
answer the detailed question
wcag 2.0 and 2.1 u.s and eu public
procurement standards
ath the importance of the prompts
requirement
how to read a vpat report skeptically
what to look for in a trustworthy
accessibility report
80 ages unique extract conformance
requirements
why we should treat atag as required
even when it's not explicitly listed in
policy
the speaker of the session mitchell evan
has coached design and development teams
for nine years harnessing his adhd
creativity to achieve enterprise scale
accessibility through the power of
authoring tools ui frameworks and design
systems most recently he led the vp80
reporting practice at level access
applying international accessibility
standard wcag 2.1 section 508 and en 301
549 to the web application native
software authoring tools and two-way
communications
mitchell recently moved from san
francisco to berlin to help build
delightfully inclusive technology in the
new era of european accessibility
detectives which brings to the session
if it's true it ain't bragging choosing
a cms for accessibility mitchell welcome
to wordpress accessibility day the floor
is yours
thank you very much ahmed for the
introduction and can you see my first
title slide okay
we are just waiting for you slides to be
sure
no problem again
we'll do that again
how about now
that's uh that worked we can see your
slides
okay you can see the full screen
yes we do it fantastic all right well
thank you ahmed and welcome folks
if it's true it ain't bragging it's
using a cms a content management system
for accessibility
as almond said my name is mitchell evan
and i want to start by if anybody does
not see the screen and wants the slides
um
[Music]
and
these slides are
creative commons with some special
requirements
if you want to remix and reuse them
so i'm going to start with
a
thought provoking question to warm up
who chooses your content management
system
and this is a question that's going to
be answered by different people in
different roles in different ways
ponder for a moment you might be very
new to content management you might be a
core contributor to wordpress but who
chooses the content management system
that you use
it could be a lot of different people
this session today is
especially for
the content management system decision
makers
but it's also for everybody decision
makers it could also be known as buyers
some people you know buy software for
their company or
agency uh but even if you don't spend
money on it you're investing your time
so you're a buyer either way you could
be an i.t architect
you could
be a template designer
and developer you could be a small
business owner of course there's a huge
number of
uh people who invest their time and
energy and money and money into
content management systems as a small
business owner
anybody who chooses a template you may
be given the content management system
but you choose a template or install a
plugin or cheat or activate a plugin
you're really modifying the content
management system so you're a decision
maker as well
for everybody else let's say you're just
an author uh you're
you are an influencer uh you may need to
influence the next generation of content
management systems if you find that the
one you're using is not up to what you
need
for accessibility now probably most a
lot of people on this caller are on
wordpress which is quite good
um you know so influence what it can do
so that when you
choose your next your current or next
content management system it's really an
investment
in accessibility investment in
accessibility
uh
how to choose your cms
here it is in one slide
choose choose wordpress 38 of the
internet can't be wrong is that isn't
that right we are all here for
accessibility day
uh that's just a joke here i'm going to
go i'm going to go step by step a little
bit more nuanced in that uh how to
choose your content management system
i'm going to say that maybe it's more
like two steps
step one
ask what the content management system
can do
and then verify that that's true
and so
you know the rest of this is really
going to be breaking down into those two
themes
ask and verify
unfortunately there's more than three
slides in this deck
today
i believe that choosing a content
management system for accessibility is
harder than it should be and i'll give a
couple of uh
perspectives on this
um this is from the eu the european
union we four authors project uh which
concluded this year
uh one of the conclusions is procurers
that's buyers find it difficult to
validate which company can be trusted
when it comes to accessibility
and that uh is borne out by the fact
that even though
just a week ago was the deadline for the
entire eu public sector to have all of
their websites accessible
they really many really haven't met that
or have met it partially
with so much content built on content
management
you know certainly training and learning
curves are part of that but we have to
look to the content management systems
themselves
and these gaps really matter and i'm
going to read this entire next large
quote
because i think it's just it really sums
up the importance of getting this right
and this is from kyle
who
runs digital accessibility for harvard
university
if making something accessible turns
into a process where you have to be a
secondary subject matter expert it's not
going to happen
these faculty are brilliant at what they
do and we need to make it easy for them
to share and disseminate information
today some of the research being done is
a matter of life and death issues
critical to society i don't think uh
i don't think i need to add any more to
what kyle said um you know that really
just shows uh
and i i should mention that kyle himself
is a user with a visual disability and
so
um
you know this perspective i feel like is
is just really we should really pay
attention to a perspective like this and
say what can we do to make this better
because if it's not accessible we want
to think of it as not functional by now
if you've watched some of these
presentations i think people have said
different things in different ways um
but uh
you know i'll add my a way of looking at
this is
thinking of accessibility not as a
feature or an add-on but it's just a
measure of does it work and of course
you want your content to work for people
uh when it is accessible people with
disabilities can use it and anybody can
use it
um we've seen images like this here's
one more of a gently rising ramp
on a beautiful hillside
it's for everybody
so those two steps step one asking what
the content management system
can do
um we're gonna
ask or look for you can ask google
your favorite search engine
ask for accessibility statements
and good news i've highlighted a couple
here wordpress has a very nicely
formatted one
drupal as well
i want to give a good honorable mention
to wix for those who have been following
over the years
i would say
i myself used to if somebody asked me
what's a terrible system for
accessibility i would have pointed to
wix
they are really turning it around so
give them kind of an honorable mention
and their
their own
documentation on accessibility is now
has has really become quite good i'll
give them like a real turnaround success
story now
again we're not done with this
presentation if this were the whole
answer we could end it here um of course
we need to scrutinize these things
because nothing is 100
percent complete we're going to talk
about kind of what to look for
you know what is so important to look
for in these accessibility statements
now these are general kind of pros sorts
of statements um
a statement of commitment they always
start with this we are committed to
accessibility and
that's not worth much but it's it's a
public statement self-commitment and so
we can it it's
the fact that it's there it's not
worthless it means we should hold that
whoever is says
publicly i'm committed to accessibility
it's out of the rest of us to hold them
to that
and what are some details that help us
do that
um
in the case of content management
systems it's really important to um
to tell users how to configure it for
accessibility you know in the case of
wordpress you know accessibility ready
themes that we've heard about
accessibility ready themes
drupal has core modules
both have plug-ins and as we've heard
plugins can break accessibility so
really having that information about
available you know kind of
a go no go on accessibility with this
type of stuff um the statements
uh uh should
say
uh how they've assessed their own
accessibility or better yet using a
third-party audit an independent
reviewer to say
what is accessible
there are going to be known issues there
are known issues in all of these content
management systems and they should
disclose them so we know what to do
about we know what works and what
doesn't today uh hopefully some be able
to either use workarounds or really
choose whether to use that system
um
a remediation plan a roadmap for what to
do about it is really important when
you're when you're ready to invest your
time and or and or money into a new
system
okay if it's if it's getting there
is it being actively worked on and you
know uh and i really say last but not
least a feedback channel for
improvements i mean even if a system is
perfect today technology changes
browsers assistive technology the world
changes and
you know it's not realistic for
accessibility to be bug free at every
moment we want that we want all software
to be completely bug-free at every
moment
but users of course always find things
not just for accessibility and so
having a feedback channel
is a real is also kind of a vote in
favor of this organization producing
this content management system
is uh
is actually committed to accessibility
because if they are they will want
to
hear from users
so we talked just now about
accessibility statements uh there's
another thing called a conformance
report and this really gets into more
detail
um and for content management systems
specifically you've heard from others
and there's plentiful information on the
internet just about
um you know
content accessibility just like is a
website a website accessible
content management systems have some
uh additional important specific
requirements
um the first one it may be obvious but
it's good to split it out aloud is it
possible does the system allow the user
to create accessible content is that
even possible we've heard a lot about
that
um in these presentations
i didn't catch hidden's presentation i
was preparing for this one i regret
doing that i'm going to come back and
watch that
later but uh hidea devries just
presented on a tag the authoring tool
accessibility guidelines and they're
really going to cover
these next two prompting prompt does the
cms prompt and guide authors to do that
to create accessible content not just
possible but actually
encourage and
surface the features that do that
and
inclusive authoring i call it is a
summary of
the various features of the content
creation process content creation
functions themselves can a person with
disabilities use those
um so these are distinct we're going to
think about remember these three as we
go through because we're going to get
into a lot more detail on these
now the hard way to ask well what should
be in these standards in these reports
is to kind of look at all the
regulations around the world
figure out what they require
they're going to vary a little bit
they're going to be in different
languages and
figure out what the standards and how to
report on them
now this is very logical but it's
this is harder this is more complicated
than you have to do it and
uh you're going to see some of that
complexity but then in the next slide
i'm going to show you how to simplify it
down
so
this is a sketch with a cut with some
shortcuts here some other
simplifications but this is basically a
picture of
the world of accessibility standards and
laws and policies and
reporting as they reply to content
management systems so let me kind of
work from the inside out here
so on the right we've got
wicked 2.0
still the by far the most common um
standard around the world in terms of
countries and regions that use it u.s
and canada use it
add to that 12 new criteria for wiki 2.1
so
um in case you're tuning in or you
didn't want to really emphasize this
wiki 2.1
is exactly league 2.0 plus some more
criteria and the conformance requirement
so um
if you meet wicked 2.1 you're meeting
wicket 2.0 so that's the first
simplification
the next layer out is
you'll see en
301549 that is the
european standard the uk after brexit is
still using it
and it has more than usually people
think of it as just wicked 2.1
but uh for certain types of products
like authoring tool content management
systems
it has some specific requirements for
those i call them the harmonized
authoring tool criteria because you see
the circle below
us
uses very much those same authoring tool
criteria
in section 508
so and then finally a tag
adds its own more detailed criteria and
that's the the blue bullet on the left
there
if you don't see the screen
i've described describe the structure of
this and as i mentioned before the
slides
are available
at any point this is a complicated graph
i do have a text alternative for it
so the point is that
you could try to figure out all around
the world what everybody's doing but it
boils down to these standards a tag wiki
2.1
if you meet those two standards you're
completely covering it for
content management systems anywhere in
the world the whole world can use it
so
i've done some analysis for you
um
you can if you want to do less if you
want to do less good stuff for your
users you can go and analyze re-analyze
the world and try to cut corners but why
not
just keep it simple okay 2.1
a tag 2.0
now how to report on these some good
news
pretty obvious you can do an a tag
report for a tag
this one is still especially in europe
and we're on europe time today
um
it's really not so widely known is
there's uh a lot of people have heard of
vpat the voluntary
product accessibility template but still
a lot of people you talk to will say oh
that's a united states thing
um
since uh 2017 it's been international
it's covered both u.s section 508 and en
and now as of
uh last year it covers all it covers all
of the
standards that are listed here
so you don't need to go and invent a
report format
you can use this format
uh to report not just for the u.s it
continues to do that as it has always
done but now it reports it's it's
available for the eu um
uh
so we're gonna
we're gonna look a little bit more at
what to expect in these kinds of reports
um
i uh
i believe it may be obvious but i i will
remind folks we're covering a lot of
material here we'll definitely allow
time for questions at the end and please
put those questions in the chat as we go
and we'll allow time for those
certainly within
this time period um
so one thing i want to highlight is you
might have noticed that there were no
countries listed on the a tag um so who
needs a tag
uh
requirements one answer is nobody no law
regulation directly requires
uh
the authoring tool accessibility
guidelines that i know of if somebody
knows differently please put it in the
chat um
and yet i say that everybody should use
the authoring tool accessibility
guidelines because
they reduce your risk of an inaccessible
website and it's the website that's
produced that has the most scrutiny and
the most users
of anything um in this system and so
why would you make it hard
for authors to make things accessible
and then resulting in more bugs on your
websites so it's completely voluntary
but i think a really good idea so we're
going to talk some more about
uh you know what are the differences and
why that is
um
if you use these two reports remember
those questions i asked before the
questions down the left here that the
key questions of
is accessible content allowed possible
is creation of accessible content
prompted
is the process of it inclusive is the
authoring process inclusive and so this
just shows
what
those those different
standards and reports cover
um
the two the first two columns are vpat
2.4 international they cover um
they cover
all three of those requirements um
the vpat part sorry the wick part of
vpat uh doesn't cover the prompts and
then those harmonized authoring tool
criteria pick up the prompts
but i added a second check mark under a
tag because they just have more detailed
criteria
my favorite being prominence
of prompts so prompts just need to exist
in as far as the eu and
us
harmonized accessibility uh
harmonized authoring tool standards um a
tag says they need to be prominent they
need to be equally prominent to other
things so thumbs up on that uh we want
that we want to make it easy for authors
to do the right thing
i'm not going to drill into this right
now uh but in a moment i'll show the
um
you know just one example you can see
what good prompts would be like
um okay so we've talked about so far
about the
um you know
what let's say we're
you i a business owner an i.t director
is choosing a content management system
we want to go out and look to see that
the producers of those content
management systems have just have
have provided good instructions uh good
information about
um you know what works and what doesn't
yet in their content management systems
now let's verify that step two verify
what the content management system can
do
um
i like this as a starting point
wordpress
lists a bunch of
vpat reports again that's the voluntary
product accessibility template
i'm going to go ahead and follow this
link
because we're going to take a look at
one of these reports
i think i'm going to need to change my
screen sharing here i just realized okay
bear with me while we
change the sharing
okay
um
i'm gonna check the chat really sec for
for a quick moment and see
actually can i have an audio of uh is
the is the uh browser coming through
here
yes it is
thank you thank you for confirming that
okay so i just followed it's
vpats.wordpress.com
and um
it lists a bunch of vpats what uh
the uh the approach that wordpress has
taken
is to show vpats of of partners and
content
and so i'm just going to choose the
first ones here so the first problem the
first one problem and the first vpat is
going to have a problem
um and uh
remember that vpat two point something i
said um
first thing we see here uh doesn't even
have the number of the vpat um but this
is not vpat
version two this is vpat version one
this was back when it was not
international it doesn't really even
reference web content accessibility
guidelines so that's the first thing you
want to look for now we're going to come
back to
specific vpats and some of the things
that they should contain i'll start by
summarizing them and we'll kind of
switch back and forth between
looking at the
you know looking at actual documents and
some of the
um and you know some of the things that
we're going to that we have to encourage
you to look for when you're evaluating
these um so the first thing i mentioned
is is the is the vpat report even
complete does it have the things that it
should uh these days
it should
always be at least vpat version 2.0
um
because that's the minimum you need to
even cover
wik
2.0 accurately um
and if you're using wiki 2.1 like
half a billion people in europe need to
do um
it needs to be vpat version 2.3 or
higher so it's up to 2.4 now the
differences are very slight um so if you
find
uh anything
2.3 or higher you're all set for
to cover with you know accurate
well accurate that's a separate question
it has the right pieces in it to answer
these questions
um it really must list the name and
version of the product that was tested
um
you know
obviously features and bugs and change
so if you don't even know what was
tested it it the reality is it may be a
version old or more but if you know what
it is then you can triangulate what
might be different
um and specifically for a content
management system product
you know it must it must actually
include and report on the authoring tool
criteria um i meant
because
um
let's just say there's a varying range
of quality of these uh reports and we're
gonna look a little bit more about that
um you know it doesn't have the just
basic requirements that it needs to
contain
uh next question is the report credible
um
does it say what in what was tested like
what was the scope of testing
it's normal to
test a sample of things in complex
systems well what was the sample that
was tested was that a reasonable sample
you should cover
you know
at least uh you know a core core process
of logging in
uh choose choosing accessible ready
templates and
editing content like uh
like a block editor you know if it
doesn't if it was missing one of those
core steps well it shouldn't right first
of all and you want to know what it
includes and didn't include in the
in the sampling
um and we'll look at
look at these next ones a little more
detail
remarks explaining the ratings uh i'll
give a visual of that in a moment
um this third one the auditor is a
reputable third party
um that is
uh not a minimum um that is a you know
there are companies that test their own
um and
do a good job um
but it you know if if it's
if it's a third party that's named on
the um
on the vpat report uh you know that both
shows independence and you can look into
that company and say hey are they known
for doing a good job on these things um
i wouldn't say that's a must-have but
that's a that's a bonus it's a plus in
terms of credibility especially when
you're in a hurry and who isn't in a
hurry you know
so um we're gonna
um
that first one that i mentioned what
what was tested um in the case of
content management systems not just the
functionality of the content management
system itself but
what
it was creating is important and let me
say that
if you just stick in hello world or
lorem ipsum into a content management
system you really haven't tested it you
got to think about
what are the different kinds of content
elements that are pertinent for
accessibility and i know that others
in this
wordpress accessibility day have uh you
know covered this as well um you know so
you know take take this as my
perspective on what are some key kinds
of content
um images of course with alt text
content structure such as headings lists
and tables don't forget nesting them
interactive elements like links buttons
and forms don't forget error messages of
forms if you use those
more complex patterns there's many of
those threaded discussions and menus are
a couple of examples
you might contain video well the pro the
product the content management system
probably supports
video and it probably supports
multilingual multilingual
content
one of the things you'll notice here is
your website might not include every one
of these and so this is where the detail
of the reports can be really helpful
because it might have a problem with
video
it you know this particular tool might
really be really bad at video you might
choose it anyway because you say i'm
seldom if ever gonna use video or
i don't need multilingual content i mean
those would be shortcuts you never know
you might get committed and in the
future need those things but at least
you can be a discerning customer
um so i said that the next one was like
do the ratings match the remarks so for
this i'm going to bring up um i'm going
to look at adobe uh because i worked on
these
i when i did the one i'm going to show
you i actually wrote although they don't
disclose that that's fine um this is
this is
public knowledge that i'm telling you i
know that a lot of consulting companies
are keep their clients secret and level
access was no exception
um
but we were proud and to publicly talk
about our partnership with adobe so new
particular secrets here
um
what we're going to look at here jump to
the wic section the web content
accessibility guidelines part
of the vpat report
and just at for example the very first
criterion
1.1.1 non-text content that's talking
about alternative text for
images
well i wrote this so of course i think
it's great
it talks about for example
uh this one is for uh for installed
software this was for frame maker
actually um which is a content which is
um whether it's a content management
system or not it's an authoring tool and
that's what they have in common um
so a rating so ratings and remarks now
we're talk that was the thing i
mentioned what what about ratings and
remarks
the rating or conformance level here was
partially supports
now what does that mean it could be
supports partially supports or does not
supports that's the only three levels we
would report at but if that's all you
said a lot of different things are going
to be partially supports that can range
from one little bug through
like 40 of all of the websites screwed
up so you really need to look at
the comment the remark for that
um so the remark is here most product
functions
do not contain images which would
require a text alternative but
exceptions include so what it's saying
is
for the most part there aren't even any
images in the product where this matters
but there's a couple of specific ones
now right away you can say well yeah
that sounds like mo you know partially
supports mostly works and you even have
detail of like oh you can go and work
around those problems or
you know use jaws scripting if you had
to or you know this is useful
information and but really important so
that just in terms of order
the second one is maybe arguably first
in priority which is the author content
also is partially supports okay great oh
so what can i not do with author content
oh okay what does that mean partially
supports
means i can only partially put alt text
on images okay what's going on um so in
here the case was
um
well authors can provide text
alternative for most images but
some image buttons in certain navigation
controls so again
from a point of view of verify ver just
making seeing if this is even a
trustworthy document
you want to see that there's this kind
of detail here now it's going to be very
different detail in different situations
but like is there an explanation for why
they gave that rating like if there is
not if you look at this and you're like
that doesn't tell me anything it kind of
puts the whole report into question and
then if it does tell you it makes the
report much more credible
and hopefully actually provides useful
information that you can work with
now there's
you know 50 wiki 2.1 criteria and you're
in a hurry and you want to compare two
you you have a access you have a product
in mind you want to use you're in a
hurry
where do you start now all of the
criteria are important but i like to
look at the heavy hitters uh what do i
mean by heavy hitters a criteria that
apply the most broadly so like basically
every product
is going to have
these are going to apply to every page
and screen of every
authoring tool and the content that it
produces so
you know
if you look at these this first list and
this is like the non-text content
graphics we just talked about
info and relationships for
[Music]
structure of html i'm going to jump to
the fourth one name role value for the
structure of interactive elements
to this middle one numerically resizing
and reflowing text for low vision people
with low vision especially to enlarge
content
and the keyboard criteria there's a list
of those so
this list right here is a lot less
imposing than
you know the whole list of 50. now again
the whole list of 50 is our hard
requirements
but we're talking about you're opening
up somebody's report and where do you
start
it actually can be a kind of a
you can take a whole day trying to read
from the top to the bottom and i would
recommend start by jumping to these
heavy hitters
color criteria are interesting they're
kind of special because for content
they're super important like contrast
and use of color
but um i just find that for content
management systems specifically they
rarely fail to allow
authors to set colors i mean that's what
they do so the author is capable of
choosing colors that will conform to
contrast
but they tend to be pretty bad at
prompting authors to do that so that's
kind of a special one
something to watch out for i would
encourage
everybody here to
be make noise and ask for
uh better prompting on
uh on color in authoring systems
um now there's a few more that depend on
your content pre-recorded video has uh
some criteria
multilingual text has a language of page
and language of parts
error messages if you have them have
those and i think those are all quite
important those are my next
level of heavy hitters again i can't
repeat enough they're all required the
the purpose of this
is to say i want to skim a report and
see what it tells me that for that
purpose this skim you know somewhere
between 14 and 22 out of the 50 will
give you a very good first first cut at
reading a report
and now what about those extra authoring
tool criteria
so i've already summarized them and
we're not going to drill down into every
one of them
but just this is what to look for
i call them harmonized harmonized means
that different standards try to be
pretty similar so the u.s section 508
has a prompts requirement it's hard to
harder to see that in the eu
requirements it calls it guide the
production of content of accessible
content guide i'm sorry guide the
production of accessible content
um
uh it also has a it breaks out the
templates
to say that they're identified as
both of them also put a requirement on
the product documentation which
i will say is
a shortcut that you might you might find
uh unfortunately that
might not just even get reported
um
uh but
the product documentation needs to
highlight what are the accessibility
capabilities of the product
um and i mentioned before um
my favorite being the prominence
requirement of a tag that that's a plus
that's a
the a tag guideline b has several more
detailed criteria that are that mesh
very well with the us and eu global
standards for authoring tools and
content management systems and it just
adds more detail to some such as
prominence
um
so uh you know whenever possible uh you
know
ask for and then scrutinize uh whether
uh the the product is doing that uh we
are nearing our time so we have to run
through time for questions i should say
i'm going to allow
almost 10 minutes for questions so we're
going to go a little faster here
test it yourself
hopefully you've got a report so you
don't have to test everything you can
spot check and just reality check um why
do i say that um
because it's easy to exaggerate even a
well-written report
i've seen this happen boy this was a
great report they're so proud of their
their accessibility but like it was an
authoring tool it was really hard to use
it was like oh i guess you can do that
but wow that was hard so
you know
like any marketing claims you know
go and test it but at least you know
what the claim is you're not starting
from a blank
slate and again i just want to emphasize
the importance of these prompts
especially i mean especially if you have
a bunch of content authors i mean
there's no way you're going to create an
accessible website without good
prompting
it just makes it too hard um so test
those prompts yourself see if the
and and others in this uh others in this
series for what of wordpress
accessibility day have have really shown
you how to do that um here's an example
of good prompts for those who are
developing content management systems do
take a look at
microsoft's accessibility checker built
into office it is prominent at its same
level as the
um as the spell checker now
you can leave it on all the time it's
great that's what all content management
systems should do
um so i'm gonna anticipate a couple of
your questions okay so just tell me what
are the best content management systems
for accessibility what are they it's
wordpress right
uh i'm not going to answer that
uh this is like
in 2001 a space odyssey saying how
please open the podbay doors now says
i'm sorry dave i can't do that i'm sorry
i can't tell you exactly what the best
content management systems are uh not
because i'm trying to kill you in outer
space um because it because none of them
is perfect and what's going to work best
is going to vary by your needs uh so
i've listed some links here download the
slides i'll give you the link for that
in a moment here
and i'm just going to highlight one of
these this one in the middle textbox
digital
some folks in the uk
have this this helped you can filter it
by content management systems and find
their accessibility statements it's
really cool
come back to that um
this is more for i was not going to go
over this in any case in detail but if
you are a buyer it's a great idea to
have a procurement policy
not just for content management systems
but for any software websites that you
hire or buy
and some great resources plentiful
resources on the internet to say how to
set up your
how to
how to make sure that you
invest in the right ways um
and then
uh on the vendor side those who create
the content management systems um you
know these statements that we talked
about here's how to make them
um and still you say
ah this is so much mitchell but i need a
content management system right now tell
me the minimum
well first i'll say
you know don't skip it entirely because
do you really need it so soon that
you're willing to choose the wrong one i
i yeah so there's the challenging
question
take a breath
choose the right system and if you could
only check one thing if i could only
check one thing if i could do this i
would say take a website that was
produced by that and have a person
really use a screen reader as well check
it out and choose a website that's like
what you want to make
if if it can't do that yeah you you need
to ask more questions
um
i'm going to end with these thoughts um
like
is a fully conformant cms possible i say
yes that's possible and here's a
thought-provoking question
is how to do that
um and i say
together we can do that that's what this
whole community is going to do together
by being demanding customers
by the dedication that the core
wordpress team and other and other
vendors are putting into this uh
we just keep working at it keep asking
these how questions how is the right
question until we get this done
so with that uh we are a couple minutes
into the content into the questions we
do have if i'm not mistaken
six more minutes for questions we'll get
some here and we'll make sure that they
all get answered later
thank you
thank you so much mitchell that was uh
insightful presentation
we all learned a lot
today i'm sure the community itself
the organizers
stakeholders out there people who want
to learn about accessibility was able to
take away a lot of great points out of
this
so
we will begin the question and answer
session we have five or six questions so
the first one
what are your recommendations to the
community
building wordpress to be more accessible
i will i should have given you a couple
of disclaimers up front one is that i am
not a wordpress expert so
i'm going to answer that in a more
general
general way
and
it's a little bit of a repeat of what i
said which is you know i think that
prompting for authors prompting for
content creators
um like if you do that well
that's the first thing to do well
um
uh i
i i would
say
that
i'm tempted to it's a hard it's a it's a
close second though to make the
interface itself accessible and it's not
just to meet the requirements
but to make the actual authoring
experience rock solid for people with
disabilities
there's two great things that happen
when you do that
one is
you help solve the employment gap
people with disabilities around the
world
are today
you know statistics are shockingly
consistent that are like employed less
than half the rate of people without
disabilities
and the digital world can solve that but
another great way another great reason
to want to make your
authoring experience accessible is that
then
you've got
people with disabilities
um both authoring and checking the
results of their authoring and so you've
got a really great community feedback
loop to tell you not only how to make
your authoring process better but how to
make the output better you've got more
people with disabilities scrutinizing
that output so that's a fairly broad
kind of philosophical answer um
and like i said i'm not actually the
wordpress expert i want to take a step
back and put wordpress in the context of
authoring tools and content management
systems in general i agree with you
mitchell but you do did mention that
it's a community and we should make
changes together so which is why your
comment does make an impact
and it
it's adding value to initiatives such as
wp accessibility day so the next
question
how can we sell the idea or even educate
our leadership on leads to make
accessibility a top priority
um there's many answers to that question
and um i will just hit a couple of high
points um
um i probably everybody on on
one answer is watch all of the
presentations for wordpress
accessibility day because i think that's
just a theme throughout
um and
i mean
the the best way is because
you're
you care about users in general you care
about your customers you want to have
more customers you don't want to slap
your customers in the face when they
come wanting to use your content
so whenever you can think about it in
terms of a user-centered
approach
if your company culture is already
thinking about your users these are your
users that's the always the best way to
start
if that doesn't get their attention
um you know
go back to those slides with the
complex rules around the world and the
requirements and the legis and the
legislation and the
lawsuits and scare them a little bit but
then once you've scared them come back
to doing the right thing don't just
think about laws all the time just
that's the reason
to begin doing the right thing and then
come back to that first question what
can we do for the users
absolutely next question
imagine you don't know anything about
wordpress and checking its bb-80 would
you consider using it as a cms
uh so uh i have not so somebody please
ping me if there is one i have not seen
uh like wordpress core having its own
vpat
report
so i'm going to answer it a little
differently looking at
looking at wordpress's accessibility
statements which i just had one link in
there just in the interest of time i
just said here this is the start here
page but as many others on this
uh series have talked about you know
really drilling down into you know
choosing the accessibility ready
templates developing your own templates
watching out for the plugins you know
it's got just a ton of information there
it says what works and what doesn't it
really comes across as very um
transparent
um and honest about what works and what
doesn't it tells you exactly how to go
and find the known issues so you know at
a glance i say it has
you know has what we're looking for um
one other thing i flew by and so these
are sort of
i guess i have to say that i haven't
gone and done the same level of deep
verification for wordpress that i listed
that each of us should do
um
and um and that that still
hasn't been done in
in years anyway like
uh
i know that i know the uh the gutenberg
uh uh block editor got a detailed uh
audit uh taking a look at that um
oh so there's an example i did take a
look at that piece of it and um well
yeah i mean it was it was audited by um
a very well-known and reputable uh third
party and
i could see that it covered the
different pieces
you know the different requirements well
including the prompting pretty well
um so yeah i mean there's a lot to like
about wordpress and it just it lets you
know where the problems are and you can
work around them or work around them and
and and
put and put and upvote them as well you
know
yeah that's all
yeah thank you so much mitchell uh i
would have loved to continue the q a but
we are out of time so thank you so much
once again i would encourage you to
post your answers on our website uh so
that the question that are posted that
can also be addressed uh on that note uh
we come to the end of the session if
it's true it ain't bragging choosing
scms for accessibility i want to thank
everyone for attending uh for this
session with michelle and myself you can
continue the conversation using the
hashtag wpad
wpad2020
and add wp accessibility and don't
forget to attend the next stop making
accessible accessibility reports with
caleb ryan uh chart at 10 am utc here in
the same track with myself see you right
here after the break so we will catch
you again sometime later
from now
thank you very much thank you bye-bye